The repository contains three usefule examples, memory trace(pinatrace), edgecnt and calltrace
for understanding how to use [pin](http://pintool.org) to trace memory access, 
basic blocks and function calls. 
You need to install the latest pintool to make the example functional. 

### For installation on Linux

1. Download the latest pintool from http://www.pintool.org (currenly using rev 76991, version 3.0). 
The website also provide tutorial and guide for using pin.

1. Unzip the pintool and navigate to the source/tools folder of pinplay. Under the tool folder, 
clone this rep (https://github.com/passlab/DCFG) and copy this folder to the source/tools folder. 
The pin_examples compilation leverages pintool building framework.
So this is the easiest approach to have it running.

1. "make" command will create the pin tool binaries in the folder, including edgecount, calltrace and 
pinatrace (memory trace). You can execute the pintool with those examples to generate edgcount, calltrace and 
memory trace files for a sample program (hello, which is generated by "gcc hello.c -o hello"). The three tracing files are 
text files (calltrace.out  edgcnt.out  pinatrace.out) that can be viewed using a text viewer (notepad, vi, cat, less, etc). 

        ../../../pin -t obj-intel64/edgcnt.so -- ./hello
        ../../../pin -t obj-intel64/pinatrace.so -- ./hello
        ../../../pin -t obj-intel64/calltrace.so -- ./hello

    Those examples are modified from examples of pin distributions. You can find other examples in the source/tools folder
    Check the [pintool guide](https://software.intel.com/sites/landingpage/pintool/docs/76991/Pin/html/) for more information. 
    For example, The [pinatrace memory trace example](https://software.intel.com/sites/landingpage/pintool/docs/76991/Pin/html/index.html#MAddressTrace).

1. There are two python scripts (callgraph.py and flowgraph.py) for generating the callgraph and control-flow 
graph using the tracing data and objdump and sym info of the hello binary. Run the script to see the required input of 
the python scripts. The objdump and sym file of the hello program can be generated using objdump command and readelf command. 
Please check objdump-routine.csh script for using objdump to generate the dump needed. The repo already included the pre-generated
tracing files, objdump (hello.s) and sym files (hello.sym and hello.main.sym). Currently the callgraphy.py generates the 
control flow in graphml and callgraph.py generating vcg which has not yet been well tested. 
